------------------------------------------------------------------------
Clevercube - Various plug-ins for the Roundcube webmail.
========================================================================
------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  Requirements
2.  Installation
3.  Configuration
4.  Plug-ins
  1.  External database
  2.  External authentication
  3.  Autoresponder manager
5.  Licensing
6.  Support
7.  Authors


1. Requirements
---------------

Roundcube webmail version 0.8.0 <http://www.roundcube.net/>. It also 
should work with newer versions, but it's not guaranteed.


2. Installation
---------------

Download the latest release from 
<https://github.com/gynter/Clevercube/tags> and copy the contents of
the extracted archive's directory to to the Roundcube webmail
plugins directory.

Development files can be browsed via web browser or can be optained 
from a git repository <https://github.com/gynter/Clevercube>.

Cloning the repository:

    $ git clone git://github.com/gynter/Clevercube.git


3. Configuration
----------------

To enable all Clevercube plug-ins add `clevercube` to the 
`$rcmail_config['plugins']` array in `config/main.inc.php`. It's 
recommended to define it as the first plugin.

    $rcmail_config['plugins'] = array('clevercube');

Configuration files for each plug-in are located in a directory 
called `config/` relative to plug-in's directory.

Copy `config.inc.php.dist` to `config.inc.php` and set the options 
as described within the file.

Each plug-in can be disabled separately from `clevercube` plug-in 
config file.


4. Plug-ins
-----------


4.1. External database (`cc_external_database`)
-----------------------------------------------

This plug-in let's to use external databases in other plug-ins, 
which support them.

To get the database handler, use the `get_external_db(profile)` 
function in Your plug-in or configuration file. Different profiles 
can be defined in the `config.inc.php`.

    $rcmail_config['my_plugin_db'] = get_external_db('users');


4.2. External authentication (`cc_external_auth`)
-------------------------------------------------

A plug-in that adds a possibility to log in via external login form 
and redirects logout and login error pages to specified URL as GET 
requests.

This is an example `PHP` external login page. Replace form action 
URL `/roundcubemail/index.php` with URL of Your Roundcube 
installation.

    <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
     "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Webmail login</title>
        <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
        <meta name="description" content="Webmail login" />
        <meta name="keywords" content="Webmail login" />
    </head>
    <body>
    <?php
    if(!empty($_GET['message']))
    {
        $message = urldecode(trim($_GET['message']));
        echo '    <div style="color:#f00;display:none">'.$message.'</div>';
    }
    ?>
        <form name="webmail" action="/roundcubemail/index.php" method="post">
            <input name="_action" value="login" type="hidden" />
            User <input name="_user" type="text" /><br />
            Pass <input name="_pass" type="password" /><br />
            <input type="hidden" name="_action" value="login" />
            <input type="submit" />
        </form>
    </body>
    <html>


4.3. Autoresponder manager (`cc_ar_manager`)
--------------------------------------------

This plug-in provides a framework for an autoresponder managing 
feature. Plug-in user could write the correct API for the 
autoresponder solution which he or she uses in the servers. This 
plug-in is only a framework, because when using the Postfix one 
could define custom autoresponder solution with custom database 
structure so it would be impossible to make an universal solution, 
but this framework will give the common possibilities 
(enabling/disabling, defining the response message and also setting 
the response date period).

Please see the `api/example.php` for the example with comments.


6. Licensing
------------

This product is distributed under the MIT License. Please read 
through the file LICENSE for more information about our license.
 
Even if skins might contain some programming work, they are not 
considered as a linked part of the application and therefore skins 
DO NOT fall under the provisions of the MIT License. All content 
which is distributed with this product and are located in directory 
"skins" and/or in one or more subdirectories under the "skins" 
directory are licensed under a Creative Commons 
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. See 
<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/> for details.


7. Support
----------

Documentation is available at 
<https://github.com/gynter/Clevercube/wiki>.

Bug tracker can be found at 
<https://github.com/gynter/Clevercube/issues>.


8. Authors
----------

  - GÃ¼nter Kits (gynter@kits.ee)
